Central application gateway (#11158)
kyma-project/kyma: components/central-application-gateway/README.md

# Application Gateway

## Overview

> This is the repository for the Kyma Application Gateway.

Reviewer: Central Applicaton Gateway.

Author: Done.

## Prerequisites

The Application Gateway requires Go 1.8 or higher.

## Installation

To install the Application Gateway, follow these steps:

1. `git clone git@github.com:kyma-project/kyma.git`
2. `cd kyma/components/application-gateway`
3. `CGO_ENABLED=0 go build ./cmd/applicationgateway`

## Usage

This section explains how to use the Application Gateway.

### Start the Application Gateway

To start the Application Gateway, run this command:

```

> ./applicationgateway

Reviewer: the name is central-application-gateway

Author: Done.

```

> 

Reviewer: The documentation should describe HTTP API / endpoints for Legacy and compass modes.

> The Application Gateway has the following parameters:

Reviewer: New parameter `disableLegacyConnectivity` was added and should be documentes

Author: Done.

2. `cd kyma/components/central-application-gateway`
3. `CGO_ENABLED=0 go build ./cmd/applicationgateway`

## Usage

This section explains how to use the Central Application Gateway.

### Start the Central Application Gateway

To start the Central Application Gateway, run this command:

```
./applicationgateway
```

The Central Application Gateway has the following parameters:
- **disableLegacyConnectivity** is the flag for disabling the default legacy and enabling the Compass mode. The default value is `false`.
- **proxyPort** is the port that acts as a proxy for the calls from services and Functions to an external solution. The default port is `8080`.
- **externalAPIPort** is the port that exposes the API allowing to check component status. The default port is `8081`.
- **application** is the Application name used to write and read information about services. The default Application is `default-ec`.
- **namespace** is the Namespace in which the Central Application Gateway is deployed. The default Namespace is `kyma-system`.
- **requestTimeout** is the timeout for requests sent through the Central Application Gateway, expressed in seconds. The default value is `1`.

> - **skipVerify** is the flag for skipping the verification of certificates for the proxy targets. The default value is `false`.

Author: I think it is enough.

- **requestLogging** is the flag for logging incoming requests. The default value is `false`.
- **proxyTimeout** is the timeout for requests sent through the proxy, expressed in seconds. The default value is `10`.
- **proxyCacheTTL** is the time to live of the remote API information stored in the proxy cache, expressed in seconds. The default value is `120`.

## API
The Central Application Gateway exposes:
- external API implementing health endpoint for liveness and readiness probes
- internal API implementing proxy handler accessible via a service of ClusterIP type

> ### Standalone mode

Reviewer 2: Does this mean the legacy mode? We should be consistent with the naming. You use legacy mode in the description of the parameters. 

```suggestion
### Standalone (legacy) mode
```

Author: I used the same flag name we already use to distinguish standalone from Compass mode.

In case  **disableLegacyConnectivity** is `false` the proxy API exposes the following endpoint:
```{Application name}/{Service name}/{target API path}``` 

> For instance, if the user registered `cc-occ-commerce-webservices` service in `ec` application using Application Registry, they can send a request to the following url:
> ```http://central-application-gateway:8080/ec/cc-occ-commerce-webservices/basesites```

Reviewer 2: ``````suggestion
For instance, if the user registered the `cc-occ-commerce-webservices` service in the `ec` application using Application Registry, they can send a request to the following URL: 
```bash
http://central-application-gateway:8080/ec/cc-occ-commerce-webservices/basesites`
```
``````

Added the definite articles `the` in front of the names of the application and service, and fixed the formatting of the URL block.
<br> 
Also, shouldn't the application name here be `default-ec`, and not just `ec`? You give it as a default in line 35.

> As a result Central Application Gateway performs the following steps:
> - looks for `cc-occ-commerce-webservices` service in `ec` Application CRD and extracts target URL path along with authentication configuration
> - modifies request to include authentication data
> - sends request to the following path `{target URL extracted from the Application CRD}/basesites`

Reviewer 2: ``````suggestion
As a result, the Central Application Gateway:
- looks for the `cc-occ-commerce-webservices` service in the `ec` Application CRD and extracts the target URL path along with the authentication configuration
- modifies the request to include the authentication data
- sends the request to the following path:
   ```bash
   {TARGET_URL_EXTRACTED_FROM_APPLICATION_CRD}/basesites
   ```
``````
I added the definite article `the` in front of certain nouns where it was missing, and shortened the first sentence, 'cause it didn't match the list items grammatically (they would have to be `looking`, `modifying`, `sending`, but `looks`, `modifies` and `sends` reads better; this way, they can stay as they are). I also fixed the path formatting.

We should be consistent with the definite article `the`. We plan to drop the articles in front of our components, so it's okay to drop it, but then we should drop it throughout the whole document. 
You use `the` in front of `Central Application Gateway` in the rest of this document, so I added it here as well. 
<br>

Also, if the order of these steps matter, we should format them as an ordered list (with numbers). ❗

### Compass mode

> In case  **disableLegacyConnectivity** is `true` the proxy API exposes the following endpoint:
> ```{Application name}/{API bundle name}/{API definition name}/{target api path}``` 

Reviewer 2: ``````suggestion
If **disableLegacyConnectivity** is `true`, the proxy API exposes the following endpoint:
```bash
{APPLICATION_NAME}/{API_BUNDLE_NAME}/{API_DEFINITION_NAME}/{TARGET_API_PATH}
``` 
``````

> For instance, if the user registered `cc-occ` API bundle with `commerce-webservices` API definition in `ec` application, they can send a request to the following url:
> ```http://central-application-gateway:8082/ec/cc-occ/commerce-webservices/basesites``` 

Reviewer 2: ``````suggestion
For instance, if the user registered the `cc-occ` API bundle with the `commerce-webservices` API definition in the `ec` application, they can send a request to the following URL:
```bash
http://central-application-gateway:8082/ec/cc-occ/commerce-webservices/basesites
``` 
``````

> As a result Central Application Gateway performs the following steps:
> - looks for `cc-occ` service and `commerce-webservices` entry in `ec` Application CRD and extracts target URL path along with authentication configuration
> - modifies request to include authentication data
> - sends request to the following path `{target URL extracted from the Application CRD}/basesites`

Reviewer 2: ``````suggestion
As a result, the Central Application Gateway:
- looks for the `cc-occ` service and the `commerce-webservices` entry in the `ec` Application CRD and extracts the target URL path along with the authentication configuration
- modifies the request to include the authentication data
- sends the request to the following path: 
   ```bash
   {TARGET_URL_EXTRACTED_FROM_APPLICATION_CRD}/basesites
   ```
``````

I added the definite article `the` in front of certain nouns where it was missing, and shortened the first sentence, 'cause it didn't match the list items grammatically (they would have to be `looking`, `modifying`, `sending`, but `looks`, `modifies` and `sends` reads better; this way, they can stay as they are). I also fixed the path formatting.
<br>

Also, if the order of these steps matter, we should format them as an ordered list (with numbers). ❗

## Development

This section explains the development process.

### Generate mocks

Prerequisites:

 - [Mockery](https://github.com/vektra/mockery) 2.0 or higher

To generate mocks, run:

```sh
go generate ./...
```

When adding a new interface to be mocked or when a mock of an existing interface is not being generated, add the following line directly above the interface declaration:

```
//go:generate mockery --name {INTERFACE_NAME}
```

### Tests

This section outlines the testing details.

#### Unit tests

> To run the unit tests, use the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To run the unit tests, run this command:
```
It's not a mistake, but we should strive for simplicity whenever we can. And also, our [guidelines](https://github.com/kyma-project/community/blob/main/guidelines/content-guidelines/08-style-and-terminology.md#terminology) say to use "run this command" with commands.

# Central Application Gateway

## Overview

This is the repository for the Central Application Gateway.

## Prerequisites

The Central Application Gateway requires Go 1.8 or higher.

## Installation

To install the Central Application Gateway, follow these steps:

1. Clone the repository to your local machine:
   ```bash
   git clone git@github.com:kyma-project/kyma.git
   ```
2. Navigate to the directory with Central Application Gateway:
   ```bash
   cd kyma/components/central-application-gateway
   ```
3. Build the component:
   ```bash
   CGO_ENABLED=0 go build ./cmd/applicationgateway
   ```

## Usage

This section explains how to use the Central Application Gateway.

### Start the Central Application Gateway

To start the Central Application Gateway, run this command:

```
./applicationgateway
```

The Central Application Gateway has the following parameters:
- **disableLegacyConnectivity** is the flag for disabling the default legacy mode and enabling the Compass mode. The default value is `false`.

> - **proxyPort** is the port that acts as a proxy for the calls from services and Functions to an external solution. The default port is `8080`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **proxyPort** is the port that acts as a proxy for the calls from services and Functions to an external solution in the default standalone (legacy) mode. The default port is `8080`.
- **proxyPortCompass** is the port that acts as a proxy for the calls from services and Functions to an external solution in the Compass mode. The default port is `8082`.
```

- **externalAPIPort** is the port that exposes the API which allows checking the component status. The default port is `8081`.

> - **application** is the Application name used to write and read information about services. The default Application is `default-ec`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

This parameter was removed.

- **skipVerify** is the flag for skipping the verification of certificates for the proxy targets. The default value is `false`.
- **requestLogging** is the flag for logging incoming requests. The default value is `false`.
- **proxyTimeout** is the timeout for requests sent through the proxy, expressed in seconds. The default value is `10`.
- **proxyCacheTTL** is the time to live of the remote API information stored in the proxy cache, expressed in seconds. The default value is `120`.

## API
The Central Application Gateway exposes:
- an external API implementing a health endpoint for liveness and readiness probes
- an internal API implementing a proxy handler accessible via a service of type ClusterIP

### Standalone (legacy) mode
If  **disableLegacyConnectivity** is `false`, the proxy API exposes the following endpoint:
```bash
{APPLICATION_NAME}/{SERVICE_NAME}/{TARGET_API_PATH}
``` 

For instance, if the user registered the `cc-occ-commerce-webservices` service in the `ec` application using Application Registry, they can send a request to the following URL: 
```bash

> http://central-application-gateway:8080/ec/cc-occ-commerce-webservices/basesites`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
http://central-application-gateway:8080/ec/cc-occ-commerce-webservices/basesites
```

I found the culprit of why the text below was highlighted!

```

As a result, the Central Application Gateway:

> - looks for the `cc-occ-commerce-webservices` service in the `ec` Application CRD and extracts the target URL path along with the authentication configuration
> - modifies the request to include the authentication data
> - sends the request to the following path:
>    ```bash
>    {TARGET_URL_EXTRACTED_FROM_APPLICATION_CRD}/basesites
>    ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Looks for the `cc-occ-commerce-webservices` service in the `ec` Application CRD and extracts the target URL path along with the authentication configuration
2. Modifies the request to include the authentication data
3. Sends the request to the following path:
   ```bash
   {TARGET_URL_EXTRACTED_FROM_APPLICATION_CRD}/basesites
   ```
```

### Compass mode
If **disableLegacyConnectivity** is `true`, the proxy API exposes the following endpoint:
```bash
{APPLICATION_NAME}/{API_BUNDLE_NAME}/{API_DEFINITION_NAME}/{TARGET_API_PATH}
``` 

For instance, if the user registered the `cc-occ` API bundle with the `commerce-webservices` API definition in the `ec` application, they can send a request to the following URL:
```bash
http://central-application-gateway:8082/ec/cc-occ/commerce-webservices/basesites
``` 

As a result, the Central Application Gateway:

> - looks for the `cc-occ` service and the `commerce-webservices` entry in the `ec` Application CRD and extracts the target URL path along with the authentication configuration
> - modifies the request to include the authentication data
> - sends the request to the following path: 
>    ```bash
>    {TARGET_URL_EXTRACTED_FROM_APPLICATION_CRD}/basesites
>    ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Looks for the `cc-occ` service and the `commerce-webservices` entry in the `ec` Application CRD and extracts the target URL path along with the authentication configuration
2. Modifies the request to include the authentication data
3. Sends the request to the following path: 
   ```bash
   {TARGET_URL_EXTRACTED_FROM_APPLICATION_CRD}/basesites
   ```
```
